So that is aggregation and sometimes
very useful to answer these big picture
questions, like do we have more users
on mobile or on desktop, for example.
But when we look at this aggregated chart,
we're hiding a lot of information.
By nature of aggregation,
we're obscuring a lot of the details and
the finer points in our dataset to just
bring out the big picture of, okay,
total number of users, which is bigger.
However, earlier, we talked about
things like, for example, for
future development or
for performance reasons.
I might need to dig into the nitty
gritty and ask myself, okay, based
on my usage data for my site, what are
the most common resolutions that we see?
Doesn't matter if they're on tablet or
desktop, right?
Probably we're gonna have not so
much overlap between mobile and desktop,
let's say.
What are the main widths, let's say, that
folks are browsing our site in so that I
can make sure I have really strong designs
for those browser widths, for example.
Or what are the aspect ratios
that are most commonly used?
Maybe the width itself
doesn't really matter, but
I wanna make sure that my site looks
really great at that particular
aspect ratio that we see people
using over and over again.
Or vice versa like, for example,
which resolutions do we see folks using on
multiple device types, which I would miss
if I was only aggregating the data and
breaking it down by device types.
I would miss that pattern of, actually,
folks are browsing really
narrow on desktop.
I don't know, maybe they keep
the window open as a sidebar on their
side of their desktop or
something like that.
So by digging into the details,
we can answer different questions than
the big picture questions that we
can answer with those aggregations.
So we wanna be able to do both.
So we've just looked at how to aggregate
data together using those group
transforms.
And there is an analogous transform
in plot, analogous to the group y.
The group transform works for
categorical variables, like we said.
There is an analogous transform called
bin that works on continuous variables.
So if you have, let's say,
a numeric range,
a numeric series of values that
you wanna be aggregating by,
you might wanna bin it into, I don't know,
hundreds or thousands of intervals.
So there is an analogous grouping for
that.
But now we're gonna move on from
aggregation to digging into the details.
So let's try to answer some of these
questions like which are the most common
aspect ratios,
which are the most common widths and
heights, whether across one device type or
multiple.
And we're gonna use a dot plot or
a scatter plot is another word for
that to try to answer this.
So what we've got in our next
exercise is kind of the basic Canvas,
as it were, for a scatter plot.
So this has a sort of preconfigured
some general settings for
this plot, like for example,
we have a grid on both the x and y axes.
And we have a certain value range for
each of these axes that might
not be the entire dataset.
For example, there might be some
resolutions out there that are more
than 4,000, I don't know, 200 pixels wide.
But in our case,
we're just gonna look at the ones
that fit in this span of the data.
So this is all configured here, again,
in the options passed into
our call to dot plot.
So again, we have that default width
setup to make sure that this plot extends
the full width of the cell.
We are scaling the height
based on the width so
that it's kind of two to
one width to height ratio.
And then we're setting up the x-axis and
the y-axis with grids and
with a slightly constrained domain.
Meaning, the set of values
that we're gonna be
visualizing from the original dataset.
That domain of input values from the data
space is gonna be slightly constrained
from what we actually see
represented in the data.
And again, plot's default is to
look at the values in your data and
make sure it can fit all of them.
So it will set up your axes accordingly.
Here, we just wanna tell it to kinda
cut off after a certain point.
And there's one other thing in here which
we'll talk about later around the opacity
scale, which we're gonna be using for
the next exercise.
So your task here is to take
this starting point and
add some code into the call to
Plot.dot that creates a scatter plot.
So here we're using the dot mark,
which as you might gather is
essentially little circles.
And we're going to be trying to set
up the x and y axes or the x and
y channels to convey the width
on the x-axis horizontally and
the height on the y-axis.
And then see if you can play around
with some of the other channels to
visualize the device category.
And last time, we looked at some users.
Why don't we look at the number
of sessions this time?
So that we can see how many individual
browsing sessions we saw for
each width and height in our dataset.
And then, again, if you want to
get really ahead of the game,
try to add some tooltips to add
a little bit more detail about
each of the dots that we're
gonna be drawing here.
So this is now we're gonna stretch
the plot muscles we've been working out so
far and we're gonna try to map
width against height on the x and
y axes using this kind of
layout as a starting point.
But feel free to tweak it and
see what changes.